- [Narrator] We talked about using
environment variables
for flexing by environment.
Sometimes, however, there's a desire
to change behavior
based on preconfigured profiles.
A case for this that I have used
are injecting mocking behavior
in a QA environment.
So let's take a look at this in action in Spring.
Back in our IDE,
I want you to open your config file.
And we're going to take our time service here,
and we're going to add to it an app profile beam.
And we're going to say notdev.
Now we're going to create a duplicate instance
of this beam.
Well, sort of duplicate.
So app beam,
app profile,
and this time we're going to say dev.
And now we're going to do a public time service,
and since this is JAVA,
we have to give it something else,
so we'll call it timeservice12.
And we're going to return a new time service,
but this time we're going to set our 24-hour equal defaults.
So, when we're in dev,
we want to see 12-hour time.
When we're in notdev,
we want to see 24-hour time
as our output.
So in order to achieve this,
we need to tell Spring
which profile to activate,
and there's a specific tag
that we use to do that.
We use the run configurations once again.
And I'm going to take my existing run,
and I'm going to call it prod.
And I'm going to pass it a d value,
so a VM argument is what I'm going to use in this case.
spring.profiles.active=prod.
Now you can do this a couple different ways.
You can pass it as program arguments,
there's VM arguments.
This is how I choose to do it in this case,
and this is how I choose to do it in production.
So that's what I'm going to do here.
Now I'm going to copy these environment variables,
'cause we're not going to change those.
But I am going to run a new application,
and we'll call this one Application Dev.
And the main class,
we will pick our application class.
We're going to pass a -dspring.profiles.active=dev
in this case.
And we'll use the same environment variables.
So now the only difference between dev and prod
should be that in dev we see the 12-hour clock,
and in prod we see 24.
So let's give that a test.
So we will run our dev application,
and you'll see that we see the time
with an AM PM indicating it's a 12-hour clock.
And let's also run our prod configuration.
And you'll see that we see it in 24-hour time.
So by simply passing it a profile name,
we had two different beams
that were configured,
and we chose which one
of these preconfigured instances,
based on this value.
And it's a very specific value,
spring.profiles.active, to use.
You can use this at the entire config level.
You can use it in individual beams.
It's a very powerful construct
that you can use,
especially when you're doing a lot
of stuff with local development,
and you want to change behavior.
I find that environment variables
are much more robust
in a distributed containerized workflow,
but not everybody's in that situation.
Sometimes you just want to set these
in your app server,
and have them set
so that you can provide
four different configurations and go from there.
And in the next video,
we're going to show you how
to load config files
and other details based on an environment,
without setting up different profiles.